.TH UTI 1 "Mac-Utils Repository Docs"
.SH NAME
uti - Uniform Type Identifier Utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uti
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIARGUMENTS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fButi\fR utility is used to lookup file Uniform Type Identifiers (UTIs), resolving dynamic UTIs, and checking UTI conformity.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR get
Get the UTI of the file at the provided path.
Dynamic UTIs will be resolved by default.

Suboptions:
    -s,  --show-dynamic    Don't resolve the UTI if dynamic
    -h,  --help            Show help on this subcommand
.TP
.BR resolve
Resolve a dynamic UTI string passed as an argument.

Suboptions:
    -h,  --help    Show help on this subcommand
.TP
.BR conforms
Check whether one UTI conforms to another. Checks the first UTI against the second.\n
You can provide a file path in place of the first UTI and it's UTI will be checked against the second UTI.

Suboptions:
    -v,  --verbose    Show verbose output
    -h,  --help       Show help on this subcommand
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show a help summary. You can get help with a specific subcommand with 'uti <subcommand> -h'
.SH EXAMPLES
Get the UTI of the item at the provided path.

.RS
.nf
uti get MyFile.dat
.fi
.RE

Get the UTI of the item at the provided path without resolving dynamic UTIs
.RS
.nf

uti get --show-dynamic MyFile.dat
.fi
.RE

Resolve a dynamic UTI passed as an argument
.RS
.nf

uti resolve dyn.ah62d4r3qkk7dgtpyqz6hkp42fzxhe55cfvy042phqy1zuppgsm10esvvhzxhe55c
.fi
.RE

Check whether one UTI conforms to another
.RS
.nf

uti conforms public.png public.image
.fi
.RE

Check whether the UTI of a file conforms to another UTI
.RS
.nf

uti conforms MyFile.dat public.data
.fi
.RE
.SH PROJECT
.PP
This script is from the \fBmac-utils\fR repo on GitHub.
.PP
\fBmac-utils\fR is a collection of useful (mostly macOS specific) shell scripts.

\fBGitHub:\fR \fIhttps://github.com/Soliez/mac-utils\fR